---
title: Short Thoughts about Vim
date: "2020-07-03T13:44:52.274Z"
description: "Vim might be the answer."
---

It’s been about a year and a half since I started using Vim for professional development. I first started learning Vim in Udemy course, setting up one month time trial to be proficient at Vim. I learned Vim entusiastically after off from work when I was working in a startup. At the office, I saw the senior frontend developer who uses Vim for everyday development. I thought it was very productive and cool. I spent most of my time at that period just to get used to it. After I finish my Udemy course, I bought the Kindle book called ‘Practical Vim’. It gave me the concrete knowlege base of using Vim, and I finally started using it without any considerable hardships. I believe it took two months before I felt somewhat comfortable using it. I bought ‘Modern Vim’ after I finish my first book, and learned Neovim. I learned it’s parallel behaviors, configurations, and I started building my own Vim setup and Vim development environment.

It was, at the beginning, quite worthwhile to learn various Vim plugins and toolings before I start to feel overwhelmed by it. I felt I am doing not quite good, whenever I got stuck integrating some plugins. It would have been pretty great if I stopped building and enhancing my own Vim setup and just start using it for a while. I tried multiple language client for my TypeScript setup. I needed to search certain method names and class names, but my fzf configuration was spitting out some non-related files(especially node modules). I also was desperate to have method inference, that it finds methods or components that I imported from. I added built-in terminal in my IDE setup(actually Neovim had a built-in terminal), and I was very satisfied with that. I added git related plugins, that automatically check code changes and shows + or - signs where the change occured. I rellay enjoyed using code editing Vim plugins such as EasyMotion, repeat.vim, surround.vim. It was pretty productive with Vim’s built-in cross-file functionality, and it also gave me some sense that I am fully controlling what I am doing(and it’s free compared to Webstorm, etc). I felt really great until I got stuck again, for linting and syntax highlighting. I was really hard to find good syntax highlighting tools for css-in-js and graphql code. I am pretty sure someone might have made it, but I was struggling back then just to highlight my code. When syntax highlighting breaks, it’s really not about the inconvenience or productivity. It gives you some sense that you are using the broken tool. Nobody wants to use a broken tool to develop seriously. That’s why I now use Ideavim inside Webstorm.

Though I failed to use Vim very seriously for a long time, I learned a lot. I felt I need to learn useful terminal programs to boost up my productivity using Vim, like silver searcher, httpie, etc. I realized it’s way more important to utilize basic built-in commands in Vim extensively. As someone said “You might not need Redux”, I could say “You might not need those Vim plugins”. Though I am currently using Ideavim with Webstorm to get assistant for major helps like syntax highlighting, git integration, auto complete, refactoring, etc, I will prepare to go back to use Neovim alone in terminal. I am expermenting with basic Vim commands and getting used to it just to prepare for the moment when I get back to terminal IDE. It was pretty great to push myself in Vim for fast learning, but I realized it gave me some stressful situations also.

Based on my experience, I recommend learning Vim agressively in very short period, if you’re interested in. Quit using your current IDE, and run `vim` for a month. you will struggle just to move around, constantly regretting about leaving your mouse and trackpad. I believe, though, Vim gives you keyboard-based computer experience with extensive terminal experience, that changes how you work dramatically. It forcefully gives you the knowledge about building IDE, parsing the text, and teach you the idea that text editing is another source of happiness.
